After 8 years of trading, this is my
full trading plan. I'll cover everything
you need from direction and bias, key
levels, time frame alignment, entries,
and more with examples and putting all
together as a full trading plan. Let's
start. So, the first thing that I want
to start with is the types of traders.
We have two main types of traders. We
have traders who focus on the direction,
and these are predictive. So, the main
focus would be on the directional bias.
The other type is reactive, where they
focus on the key level. Now, when it
comes to the predictive, what they do is
asking the first question, which is what
is the direction? And the
[clears throat] answers goes like, I
think the market is going up or going
down. And what they do is entering
anywhere on the chart with no clear key
level. The problem with that is they're
going to get stopped out even if they
got the direction right. And this is a
big issue when it comes to mostly ICT
traders because they think direction is
everything. And we're going to cover
this later. Now, there is another type
where they focus on the key level. So,
they are being reactive. What they do is
find the higher time frame key level,
wait for price to reach that level,
enter at that level, and then trade to
the next level. Now, direction, when you
trade based on the key level, direction
becomes automatic. So, basically,
trading off that key level. So, we have
this key level here. When price comes to
that level, give a reaction, you already
have the direction there. You'll be
winning regardless of the bias that you
think of. Sometime, you can take a trade
against the direction, but just because
you take it from a key level, it's still
going to work. Now, a problem with a lot
of the especially ICT traders, but also
in the whole industry, because most
people, when they lose, they try to
blame something. And one of the things
that they always blame, sometimes
psychology when it's not the real issue,
sometimes the strategy is the issue. One
of the things is also bias. So, a lot of
ICT traders, what they're going to do is
after taking a loss, what they're going
to blame is wrong daily bias. And
they're going to think that it's all
about the bias. They got the bias wrong,
that means uh next time they need to
adjust the bias, they need to focus more
on identifying that daily bias. Now,
they're going to blame the bias, right?
Next day, they're going to change the
bias. And then after that, they're going
to realize that they're still losing.
So, the daily bias was not the issue,
but now they're stuck in this loop.
They're getting or you're thinking that
they got the daily bias wrong. They're
going to change the bias, they're going
to still lose, and here is the loop. So,
they're going to still think that they
got the daily bias wrong, and it's going
to repeat.
The real problem is not that. They're
just blaming that because they don't
know what the real issue is. However, a
lot of times, the real problem would be
poor key level identification. They are
not Even when they get the direction
right, they are not identifying the
precise key level. So, they enter based
on direction and not levels. That is the
issue. However, when we think about
levels, higher time frame key levels
work regardless of bias. As I said
again, sometime we're going to take mean
reversal trades, sometime we're going to
take continuation trades, regardless of
the bias, regardless of the direction,
the key level itself establishes the
direction. Let's assume that price is at
a bullish key level. If we answer yes
for this question, and then we also have
a bullish bias, that is just a very high
probability setup. So, this is your A+
setup. Then, if we also answer yes, but
then the bias is bearish, so we're being
against a trend, it still can give a
reaction. If we answer no, so there's no
key level, then that is just random
outcome, anything could happen, and even
if you get the direction right,
without key level,
you're still going to lose because
you're just entering anywhere on the
chart. Now, let's talk about this here,
and I really want to make sure that you
understand this point. If you get the
direction correct, you enter anywhere,
you're going to get stopped out or
you're going to get some reactions and
random, I would say random reactions,
and a tiny take profit. However, if you
get the direction correct, you get entry
at a higher time frame key level, you're
going to have wider runs and wider wins,
which means that you're going to have
high reward to risk and high win rate.
So, if you ask me what is the right
formula and what is the formula that I
suggest you need to follow is blending
between both. You actually need to find
the balance between direction and key
level. So, reactive, which focuses on
key levels, as well as predictive, which
focus on directional bias. These two, if
you blend them and combine them with the
right balance, is going to equal to high
probability condition. So, this is what
I suggest. Now, let me ask you this
question here. Assuming that all we have
is this price action leg. So, I don't
know what is happening before, after,
but I know now that we are bearish. We
break structure here. We are in a
bearish price action leg from this high
to this low. If you just know that the
direction is bearish,
and the daily bias is bearish, do you
enter from anywhere?
So, can I enter here? It could still hit
my stop loss and then go up and go up
and go up. But if you trade even without
the direction, I know that this is a key
level here. When price reach this level,
I would enter short, and it can still
give a reaction even from being against
a trend. Let's assume that the trend is
actually bullish. So, this was nothing
but just a push to the lower side as a
pullback. And here is the main key
level. Even if I'm being against the
direction, this level here is still
going to give a reaction to the lower
side, maybe to the 50% of this range.
All right, so something like this, and
then go up. So, you can still get some
reaction on the lower time frame, which
you can either secure some reward, some
pips, or you could exit at break even at
least. Now, why you don't need
direction? Why direction is something
that is can be used as a confluence and
not as something part of your trading
plan. And I would say, I want you to
consider the direction, but don't be,
you know, obsessed with finding the
direction because that is going to make
you lose instead. If you are just
obsessed with the daily bias idea. What
most ICT traders do is they always think
about the daily bias and this is
strategy that does not require daily
bias. However, it has a lot of
confusion. So, I want you to think in a
logical way. Why you don't need
direction? Assuming that this is higher
time frame,
4-hour maybe, and this is a 4-hour
level. So, we are trading between this
4-hour level and this 4-hour level. And
all what we have in between is a noise.
And when I say noise, what I mean is a
lower time frame price action. So, this
could be 15-minute or it could be
5-minute. So, you see, price goes from a
key level on a higher time frame to
another on a higher time frame. And the
noise here or the price action or the
details are going to be on a lower time
frame.
Price will give a reaction off that
level from a level to another. If you go
to the chart now and just mark some
levels on a 4-hour time frame, and then
regardless of the direction, take a look
at the 15-minute, and you're going to
still see that these levels even because
think about it. We are going up, for
example, here, like this, and we're
going up. We need to pull back. So, even
from a key level, what we're having is a
pullback. You can trade this even if
we're bullish, right? So, we're
basically bullish, but then we have some
pullbacks. You can still trade the
pullbacks, and these pullbacks are going
to be from higher time frame levels, but
they're going to give you a lot of
reward to risk, same as this. So, let's
assume that we are just being bullish,
but we reach a key level, and we have
this pullback. This can be tradeable on
the lower time frame, and it's going to
give you a lot of reward to risk. And I
do have some proofs later that I'm going
to go over, but you enter from here, you
can re-enter here, and this one is going
to be higher reward to risk compared to
this one if this is with the direction.
But you don't need the direction as a
main thing, as a must in your trading
plan. So, always think about the key
levels and the reaction on the lower
time frame instead of just thinking
about the direction. Because if you
think that we're bullish here, but we're
reacting off a key level, and you're
still trying to long, that's not going
to work. So, trying to long here, long,
long, long, it's not going to work
because we're reacting off another
higher time frame level. Now, let me go
over before going over the trading plan,
which we have right here. So, the
complete trading plan. We need to
understand the time frame alignment. And
this is something that I always apply to
any strategy. Now, what I'm going over
here can be applicable to your current
trading strategy. So, I'm not telling
you that you need to switch from your
strategy to this one because you still
need to find the key levels, and this
relies on your current trading strategy
because some people would consider a key
level as an order block. Some people
would consider a key level as, you know,
supply and demand. Other people as S&R.
So, it all depends on your trading plan.
But this here, the time frame alignment,
because when we think about key level
and when we say higher time frame, there
is a misunderstanding that higher time
frame means monthly, weekly, and daily.
And that is totally wrong. If you think
this way, I think you're missing the
whole point. Now, here, we don't call it
high time frame. We call it higher time
frame. So, it is relative. So, even
15-minute could be actually a higher
time frame because it's higher relative
to the 1-minute as an example. Comparing
to the 1-minute, it's actually higher.
So, higher is relative as well as lower.
Lower is relative. So, even weekly can
be lower time frame. Compared to what?
Compared to the monthly as an example.
And 4-hour could be also a lower time
frame compared to the weekly. We need to
think this way. Now, the time frame
alignment, this is the key level time
frame and this is the entry time frame.
You can be flexible here. So, weekly
goes
with the 4-hour. However, you can be
flexible. Sometime use the hourly,
sometime use the daily. You can be
flexible. And same here, 4-hour with
15-minute. You can still use the
5-minute. You can use the hourly. So,
feel free to be flexible, but make sure
that there is an alignment between the
two. Now, what could I mean by no
alignment? No alignment means that we
have a key level here and it is, let's
say, on a weekly time frame. So, weekly
time frame and I'm looking for an entry
on the 1-minute. What's going to happen
is that there's going to be a lot of
noise on a 1-minute time frame compared
to a 4-hour level. And I might be
stopped out maybe 10 times before
getting the right one. There is lots of
noise and there is no alignment between
the two. And time frame alignment means
that I want to align the two time frames
together. So, we have a bullish key
level as an example. What I want to see
is same as this one is a bullish one, I
want to see the lower time frame to be
bullish. When we have key level is
bullish and lower time frame is bullish,
that is the alignment. So, I want the
two time frames to be aligned when when
it comes to the momentum and the
direction. So, now let's cover the
trading plan. So, this is the complete
trading plan. Now, you can take these
steps and just apply it to your current
strategy. Very easy. You don't need to
switch to any uh you know, a whole new
thing. The first step is going to be
identifying higher time frame key
levels. Now, as I said, key level on a
higher time frame could be an SNR level,
could be an order block, could be an
imbalance, could be a liquidity sweep,
could be a supply and demand, could be a
trendline. I'm not against anything
here. Now, you identify that. You need
to remember that it's relative. So,
higher is relative. A weekly can be
higher time frame and can be a lower
time frame. There is nothing that there
is a rule saying that 4-hour is a higher
time frame. That is just totally wrong
and a bad way to understand. They need
to have clear rejections. So, based on
past price action, I know that or based
on back testing, I know that these areas
give rejections. So, I do have a proof
and I do have a source that at these
areas this could happen. And this takes
me to the third one, which is it's
proven based on probabilities. So,
again, based on past price action, I
know that these levels actually give
reactions. Now, the second step would be
waiting for price to reach that level.
And this is where most people fail and
most traders fail. Why? Because most
traders are only thinking about the
money and they're not patient enough to
wait for the right opportunity or the
perfect opportunity. Here, you need to
be patient. Patience is key here. Never
chase price. So, just wait for price to
come to your level and do not chase it.
So, let's say this is your key level
here and price give a reaction just
above your key level and you're sure
that that key level is the valid one,
then wait for it. Do not chase price and
do not just have FOMO to enter from here
because price eventually is going to
come to your key level. So, do not chase
price. Patience is key here and let
levels come to you. Now, the third step
is we need to use lower time frame for
entry. And same was higher, lower is
relative. That is the first thing. And
at these areas, at these higher time
frame key levels, what we look for is
reversal signals. And as I said before,
we need to find the alignment between
the higher time frame and the lower time
frame. And if you ask me about,
you know, what is the game of trading?
What is the cheat code in order to
succeed in this game? I would say it's
finding the balance between the higher
time frame and lower time frame. It's
about trading from a higher time frame
level to another higher time frame level
in the lower time frame. That is, in my
opinion, the cheat code to trading. Now,
you need to be disciplined enough, you
need to have your psychology ready. But
when it comes to the technicals, I would
say this is a cheat code. So, you enter
on the bounce. When you have the
alignment, you enter here using the
lower time frame. Now, trade to the next
higher time frame level. Why? Because
what we're doing is trading from a
higher time frame level to another.
Target the next key level and direction
is just established already. You already
have the direction because the direction
would be from this level reaching this
level to the next level. The move from
here to here, that is your direction.
From a level to another. So, your
direction here to the upside. Now,
sometime price might not go there
immediately. So, reacting of this level,
maybe price goes again and then goes up.
So, what do we need to do instead? We
need to trail our stop losses and take
some partials and secure ourselves
based on what is happening on the price
action. So, we get some signals from the
price action. If we need to hold this
trade, if we need to secure ourselves by
going break even, if we need to take
some partials because we're reaching
another
minor [clears throat] level. So, all of
these things you need to also
understand. So, now let's cover some
examples and there are a lot of
examples. Now, this one is a random one.
So, these ones are some of them I've
taken, some of them are just worth going
over. And there are some trades that
I've taken and I do have a proof that
I've taken and then show you what
happened after. Based on what? Based on
the edge model that I, you know, teach
in my edge school community, as well as
just the key levels. Now, what is the
key level that I use? It's this one
right here. Now, this is higher time
frame, 4-hour. This is the view on the
lower time frame, on a 15-minute. Now,
let's look at this here. So, this is
pound yen on a 4-hour time frame. If you
notice here, now there is a disclaimer
that not every key level is going to
work because sometime you're just
basically being wrong about the key
level and sometime it's all random. The
market is so random that sometime even
if you execute your A+ setup, it can
still fail, right? Now, this is my key
level here. What is this? This is the
level that I teach in my edge school
community. We always execute based on
this one and why? Because it gives the
best entries. It gives really snapper
entries and very high reward to risk.
So, imagine entering from here all the
way to the next level. But taking some
partials here, here and then here. Now,
what do you think? We have a key level,
price comes to that key level. What do
we do? We simply look at the lower time
frame exactly right here in order to
enter. Now, I could have a limit order
here, but I don't know if this level is
going to work. I need to find the
alignment and then also go into the
lower time frame. Finding the entry
there is going to give me more reward to
risk. So, let's see on the lower time
frame. This is the level that we had
here. And notice what happened. Price
come to this level on a 15-minute time
frame, reject lower strongly. Based on
entries, we enter here using the edge
model. We enter here. So, imagine
entering here with a stop loss maybe, I
would say, just slightly above here,
here, and then target the next level.
We're going to say maybe the next level
is here. That is a huge reward to risk.
If this is your stop loss just this
small, then imagine how many reward to
risk you're going to have. Now, going
back here, we have another key level.
So, this is a key level and if you
notice these are exactly the same key
levels except this one, which is also
another pattern that we teach. Now,
price comes here. What is the alignment?
You notice alignment here. Uh sometime
you're not going to even have the
ability to enter. Price is just going to
go to the key level and then immediately
shoots up. So, not necessarily that
you're going to enter all of these.
But see how the key level is always
going to be establishing. Now, imagine,
what are we doing here? We're bullish,
right? And then we have a break of
structure to the upside. A break of
structure, a break of structure. Even
shorts here, I could enter. It's against
the direction. However, I still was able
to execute based on this one. How about
this one? Even though we were bearish
here, I could still execute on this
bullish key level here. And if we notice
on the lower time frame, entry here.
Maybe I'm not going to get this one. All
right, but this one is a huge one. This
one I think I think this one we executed
together. Now, here, same thing. Key
level. Price goes up and yeah, that's
[clears throat] huge. Now, let me go
over some examples. Now, this is just an
example of how you can use key level
even without the need of direction. You
don't need direction. That is just a
proof to you. And does not mean that
I'll be able to spot all of these key
levels. They're actually much more. I
would be losing some and
I'm pretty sure that my winnings
are going to be much bigger. Now, let's
take a look at this. What we have is I
do share some trades ideas. It's not
signals. They're just trade ideas to
teach you real time. Now, what I did
here is give a pound CAD idea here based
on the key level on a higher time frame.
And then what I did is execute on the
lower time frame based on here. And this
is the execution. Now, take a look at
what happened. This is based on the
higher time frame key level. Same as
what I taught you earlier. Price comes
to that key level, entry on the lower
time frame, going lower. Now, even
sometime you're going to have doubts
about the direction, but the key levels
are going to give you that high reward
to risk regardless of the direction. You
see? That is a level. This is the trade
that we entered from here. Immediately
price pushing lower. Huge reward to
risk.
Now, take a look at this one here. So,
dollar yen and then I give the idea that
we are going to be pushing from here to
the upside. And this is what we're
waiting for. So, price to push from
here. And then I give the update that
it's gone. Take a look at this one here.
What do we have is a key level and I
knew that is this is going to be huge
and what happened after is price come
into this level, I was able to execute
on the lower time frame and price
pushing higher. Now again,
this time it was not too clear, but if
price comes to this key level, which is
higher, I was not seeing this one to be
honest, so I did not execute this on
this one, but this one was a huge trade
and then it followed all the way up
here. Even we've been so bearish on the
end, but then what happened is we pushed
higher. Now we've been pushing higher,
there is another key level where price
reach. I also
couldn't execute this on this one, it
was a bit tricky, but you see key level,
price react off. Now what happened?
Another key level,
price reacted and then also executing
this on this one
with a very tight stop loss and why?
Because I was able to find a lower time
frame confirmation here and this allows
me to have a smaller stop loss. Does
this mean this is going to work every
time? Not really, but based on
probabilities, it works and based on the
higher reward to risk, even if I lose
two, three, four times in a row, I could
still make up all that loss in one
trade. Now Frank potential short here
and if you notice here, based on this
key level here, price reached and I gave
the update just before this happened and
I noticed that this could be the lower
high here and we could push lower. I
didn't get the first entry here, but it
just that I tried to get it, I couldn't.
This means that even sometimes you're
going to
miss some trades, but then I followed
with a continuation. If you notice key
level here that I showed before, price
come to that level, immediately goes
lower. Even we've been pushing higher
here and some people would think that
the daily bias is bullish. Then here,
another key level, so we have the
creation of a key level reaction here,
key level created, sniper entry here,
pushing lower. So this is how you trade
based on just two things, higher time
frame and lower time frame. You don't
need direction, direction could be
something secondary, could be something
as a confluence. If you like the video,
then make sure to hit the like button,
subscribe to the channel and leave a
comment. If you have any questions about
this, then make sure to write it down in
the comment section. Make sure to check
my community, it's cool, the link in the
description. If you wanted to know my
full trading strategy and then the trade
ideas that I shared, it's going to be
there. That's it for today and I'll see
you next video.